We need to modify our Quake Report App to parse the JSON RESPONSE from the USGS server,
and convert it into an ArrayList of earthquakes.
So first, I asked you to copy over
the QueryUtils class that I provided for you in this link.
Select all this text, and copy it.
Then in Android Studio,
go ahead and create a new Java class file called QueryUtils.
You can remove the initial boilerplate code,
and then paste in these contents.
Lets collapse this pane so it's easier to read this file.
Then you can scan this file to become familiar with it,
but let's review it right now.
In this class, we have a string constant in
all capital letters called SAMPLE_JSON_RESPONSE.
Set this as the static final constant value,
this means the value will never change.
So remember that when we set this constant to equal the response from the USGS Query.
The special characters like the quotation marks
are properly scaped with a backslash character.
Then we have a private constructor,
which means no one should create an instance of this class.
This is a utility class, so it will contain static variables and static methods,
where you can call the method directly without
having to have an object instance of the class.
Now the most important method is this public static method called
extractEarthquakes that takes in no inputs and returns an ArrayList of earthquakes.
Within the method, we create an empty ArrayList of earthquakes,
and return it at the end of the method.
We also have a try catch block,
which will handle intercepting any exceptions to get thrown from the JSON parsing code.
We'll talk more detail about the trackage blocks in Java in the next lesson.
But for now, there's a single TODO marked in this method that we left for you to finish.
So let's write that together now.
Now, you could have used the pseudo code we've
provided you to guide you in writing this code.
First, we create the root JSONObject by calling
the constructor and parsing in the sample JSON response string.
This class will parse the whole GL JSON string we got back from the USGS API.
We'll then store this object in a variable called baseJsonResponse.
Now, we're looking for the magnitude, place,
and time of the earthquake,
so to drill down for that info,
we first need the "features" array.
Within the root JSON object,
we want to get the value associated with the "features" key.
It should map to a JSON array that contains a list of earthquakes.
So let's call the getJSONArray method on
the baseJsonResponse object parsing in the "features" key as a string.
We can then store the result in the earthquakeArray variable,
which is of data type JSONArray.
At this point, we want to loop through each earthquake in the earthquakeArray.
So let's start with a for loop.
If you want to review loops and for loops,
you can check out the notes below for a video from the last course.
Now, we began creating a loop by initialize the counter variable i to be zero.
Before each iteration of the loop,
we tested the condition i is less than the length of the earthquakeArray is still true.
If it is true, we can execute all the lines of code within the loop.
At the end of one iteration,
we increase the value of i by one,
indicated here by the i++ syntax,
and then we can go ahead and loop around again.
Next, we can pull out the JSONObject at the specified position of the earthquakeArray.
We start with position zero,
which is the initial value of the counter i variable.
Once we have the current earthquake JSONObject,
we can extract the JSONObject associated with the "properties" key.
Remember that this list out many of the earthquake's attributes.
As you can see, these JSONObjects are deeply nested within the overall response.
But finally, we're at the level where we can access the individual values of
the properties JSONObject by referring to the key "mag" for magnitude,
"place" for location, and
"time" for the time in milliseconds that the earthquake happened.
For now we can extract all these values as strings,
because we're just displaying them straight to the screen,
and not doing any additional calculation or formatting on them.
Then we can create a new earthquake object from these three strings.
And lastly, we need to add the new earthquake to the list of earthquakes.
After the loop finishes executing once per each earthquake in the "features" array,
we will then built up a whole ArrayList of earthquakes.
Then we can return this list as the return value of the method.
Great work. That was a very challenging problem with a lot of tricky Java syntax.
So you should be proud of yourself for solving it.
I'm going to go back now and add some more comments to my code.
All right, this looks good.
Now let's test this code by calling this method.
For Step number three of the quiz,
I asked you to modify the earthquake activity to
call the QueryUtils extractEarthquakes method.
So in this file, let's delete the fake ArrayList of earthquakes that we created earlier.
And let's call the QueryUtils method now.
There are no errors in our code,
so lets run it on our device, and see what happens.
Awesome, our app now shows the list of earthquakes.
This should look similar to the sketch we did earlier
when you parsed the JSON RESPONSE manually in your head.
If you want to reference any of the code we showed you,
check out the notes below for the code dev.